[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In 1970, 44 years ago
when I was a young man,
I had a near-death experience.
I was killed in a motorcycle
wreck in Eugene, Oregon.
And I happened to have this
wreck in front of an ambulance
location.
And they just came
around, picked me up,
and took me to the hospital.
They put me in the ICU,
the intensive care unit.
And about three hours
later, I went into a coma.
I had rather extensive--
there's scars here
on my wrist and stuff.
Leg injuries.
I have steel in my femur here.
I have lost the kneecap
on my right leg.
Part of my wrist was
up here by my elbow,
pushed up under the skin.
I was pretty well destroyed.
So three hours later,
I went into a coma,
and I went out of body.
>> When I was about
five years old,
I was recommended to go
in for a tonsillectomy
because my tonsils were
supposedly infected.
And it turned out that they
actually weren't, so the doctor
didn't take them out.
But I did go through
the operation.
What happened was they took
me into the operating room.
And in those days,
they had a big mask
that they put over you
for the anesthetic.
It was a little
different than nowadays.
And when they put the
mask over my face,
he said, you know, he just said,
breathe deeply, so I breathed,
and it was OK pretty much,
except that of course,
I went out right away, which
I would, being five, you know?
[LAUGH]
The next thing I knew, I
just shot up out of my body.
And for a while, I looked
down and saw myself
being operated on and stuff.
And I said, hmm, that's
interesting, you know?
I was just looking
at myself and them.
[LAUGH]
>> I became aware of my
clairvoyance at the age of 14
through a near-death experience.
Off and on for six years,
I just came to a point
where I began to
hear, feel, and see.
I had a second near-death
experience at 41
in a head-on collision.
And that experience,
all I can remember
is rising above my body
into a vibrant green light.
And when the two cars hit,
I never felt anything.
I wasn't present.
It was as if I was
hovering above my body.
I could see myself very clearly.
I could see myself
three dimensionally.
My consciousness was
floating above my body.
The thinking part
of me was up here.
This down here just felt like
a shell, but it was my shell.
>> I totaled my automobile and
my spirit and soul immediately
left my body in the car and
went through the tunnel we hear
people talk about quickly, all
the way through to the other
end and out the other end
into pure white light.
I also was spoken to with a
voice, what some people call
a conversation with God.
I was told immediately when
I entered the pure light
by a male voice--
and we all hear
whatever voice we
need to hear in whatever
language in which
we need to hear it--
telling me, Lewis,
you were called here
to have this conversation and
to be sent back, because you
are not doing your work.
>> The being of light
is definitely a being,
but not with a face, a
figure, anything else.
It's more of an energy center.
It's a white light that's
described as having gold
around the edges, if you wish.
It's the brightest,
prettiest, most loving light
I've ever seen.
I've never been so in love
or at home or with my family
or with--
it's where I'm from.
And I felt that this being and
I had known each other for--
I used the term thousands
of years or eons.
We'd always known each other.
There was no beginning,
no end to how long
we've known each other.
If you think of each of
our consciousnesses as one
little grain of sand and
infinite intelligence
as the whole beach of sand,
I was plugged back in.
My little grain of sand was back
on the beach where I belonged,
where I came from.
>> And then I saw somebody
come up to me in a black dress,
and it was my great grandmother
whom I'd actually known until I
was about--
well, she died when I was,
I think, two and a half,
or something like that.
I called her Gaga.
Everybody called her that.
And I said, oh, Gaga, I haven't
seen you in such a long time.
And I put out my hand.
She took my hand and she
said, well, you're just here
for a little visit.
I remember being in a corridor,
like a building that we
had gone into.
And there was a long
corridor with doors off of it
like a school like
classrooms, different rooms.
Well, they opened the door to
the classroom and they said,
you can look at this.
You know, this is a classroom.
People are learning things.
And they were at a keyboard.
They were actually-- and you
have to realize, this is 1951,
because I was born in 1945.
There were no such things
as computers, especially
personal computers.
They were big, huge, room-sized
things then, those days.
And nobody had ever heard
of such a thing, you know?
There were
typewriters, of course,
but these were not
keyboards like that.
They had little squares
and they also lit up.
I could see the light underneath
them, like some of were blue
and some were red
and some were green.
And I remember that the
man told me, he said,
you will see these
later in your life.
>> But you know, I did have
an encounter in that encounter
with a fellow who came to me
and introduced himself as Ben.
He said that he had come to
be with me in this moment
so that I would not have to
have the experience alone.
And told me that the
only thing that I needed
to know moving forward
from this experience
is that I did not have
anything to worry about,
because I was hurt.
I was hurt and I was trapped
in the car for 45 minutes.
But he had the most
beautiful eyes I've ever seen
and was very gentle.
He called me by name
from the first meeting.
He spoke very softly
and very gently.
As soon as he touched me,
I completely went limp.
But then as he stepped
back from the car,
he said, I have to
go now, and smiled
and vanished in thin air.
And I knew I had literally
been touched by an angel.
>> I was in this state
of consciousness,
which was with my soul and
my spirit at this source.
I was no longer
in my body at all.
I said, well, I surrender.
Take me.
I'm yours.
I will do your work.
And I was told immediately, no.
It's not my work you
need to do, Lewis.
It's your work.
I then asked, well,
what is my work?
Since I was in a place
where all knowledge is known
and I could feel that,
I assumed I was going
to be told what my work is.
And instead of being
told, I was asked, well,
what is it that keeps you
from being all you are capable
of being?
Well, I didn't know, because
I thought everything was fine.
So I felt something
about difference
that prevented my
soul from connecting
with the soul of another.
I did not know how
to bridge the gap.
And when I said
this in the light,
in my conversation
with God, then just
like the best moment
in the movie "Amadeus"
when Mozart hit a
perfect note and went,
there it is, the voice of God
said to me, there it is, Lewis.
There is your work.
And that was my conversation.
I was then sent back down
the entire same tunnel
in white light until I
remember coming into the body,
until those tight rubber gloves.
I'm not fully in until I am.
And then--
[POP]
[WHOOSH]
--this white light
disappeared, and I
was sitting in my automobile,
a totaled automobile, badly
damaged, with no
physical damage.
And I walked out of the car
into the ambulance to tell them,
there's no problem.
>> I was a young
man in my early 20s,
and I decided to come back here.
I wasn't done with the
reason I had been here.
I clearly remember squeezing
down, getting smaller,
and coming into my body.
It was like slamming back into
the pain of this existence.
So I come back, and at that
time, a college student
studying mechanical
engineering and physics.
I come back into this life
and I go on with that career.
But they're teaching
me Newtonian physics.
They're teaching
me that 3D is it.
And I'm always, from the
beginning from then on,
I'm on the other side.
No, no.
There's all the
rest of this energy.
There's all the rest
of this out here.
>> I don't remember going in
specifically to my body except
that, you know, it was like
going down a very small--
like a funnel or
something, you know?
It was like I just
swooshed back in.
And I heard the
doctor say, I thought
we were going to lose
her there for a minute.
I tried to lift my arm
and it felt so heavy
after having been really light.
And it was so nice being not
in a body, because everything
was light and I could
just go where I wanted to
without even thinking.
And I tried to lift my
arm, and it weighed a ton.
And I thought to myself, oh, no.
Not this again.
[LAUGH]
>> And then without
any warning whatsoever,
it's just like someone thrust
me back into my body again.
I came to consciousness
about 90 seconds later,
back in my physical body.
I was actually
impaled on the dash
with my knee for 45 minutes.
About 20 minutes after the
accident and after this fellow
disappeared, then I started
feeling pain in my right foot,
in my knee.
My arm was broken.
My ribs were broken.
I can remember the young woman
who was bound and determined
to get me out of the car
and was yanking on the door
and screaming for people to
help for her to get me out
of the car.
But had she got
me out of the car,
I probably wouldn't walk today.
>> First off, when I had the
near-death experience in 1970,
I started talking about it.
And I was on the
head injury floor,
and so the chief
psychiatrist wanted
to put me in the nuthouse,
because this isn't true.
What, do you think you're Jesus?
You died and you came back?
What is that, you know?
You're crazy.
So he wants to throw
me in the nuthouse.
And the nurses, they know.
They've heard.
They've seen it too many times.
And they're hugging
me and saying, shh.
Don't.
Yeah, but it's true.
I've got to tell him.
So he's saying to me, so
you think you're Jesus?
And I say, look.
I went there.
I did it.
You got a degree.
You're a doctor and all that,
but you've never been there.
And you're telling
me it doesn't exist
because you have a degree?
I believe they may have
given my body painkillers,
but I was out of the body.
So people say, well, it's
a drug effect in your mind.
No, I'm out of the body.
I remember coming
back into the room
and coming back into the
body and seeing myself
and coming into it.
I finally get out
of the hospital.
I go to the pastor at
my church and he says,
well, it can't possibly
be true, because it
doesn't agree with scripture.
And I said, wait a minute.
It doesn't agree with
your interpretation
of the scripture.
It's true.
I went there.
Those people who want to
say, well, it was a drug,
or well, it was
something else, they're
looking for it to be something
else because they don't
want to hear what we're saying.
>> I would say not to let
other people discourage you.
Some people let
other people say,
oh, well, you couldn't
have seen that,
or you couldn't have--
you know, da, da, da.
And of course, I would say,
believe in what you have seen
and what you've experienced.
If you did experience
this, it's a good thing.
>> There was no confusion.
This was not a dream.
This was my real experience
of my soul outside of my body,
outside of my personality,
outside of my ego,
and outside of my
human form having
a real experience at what I
call the source of all energy,
and all spirit from
which we all come.
Just when I say I've
been in the light
and experienced all
knowledge where there's
nothing but love and light
and truth and peace and grace,
there's still not enough when
you add all the words together
to fully describe
what I experienced.
>> It was more real
than this reality.
We all remember that
experience better
than anything else in our life.
It is embedded in us.
It is burned into our mind,
because it was more real.
So for people,
how to believe it?
They always want me
to give them that one.
How to believe it?
Walk a mile in my shoes?
Go have your own
near-death experience?
Here, let me get a gun.
We'll shoot you and see
if you die, you know?
I mean, we can't do that.
So they want to know like I do.
I was lucky to be killed.
Think about what I'm saying.
I was lucky to be
killed and then
to come back so that I
could say all of this
and know all of this.
>> Well, my sense about
near-death experience is
the same as when I hear a
story about psychic experience
or mystical experience, or in
fact, any strange experience.
On the one hand, it is
somebody's actual experience,
so you need to listen to
it carefully and compare it
against other
people's experiences.
Then the question is
if it's very strange,
if it doesn't happen
very often, you
have to figure out how to
interpret what it means.
Some people will interpret
a near-death experience
as meaning that
they have literally
separated from their
body in some way
and the identification
of who they are
is no longer like this.
It's something else.
A spirit, a soul,
something like that.
It's been very difficult
to do scientific research
on these kinds of
experiences because it's not
ethical to try to induce
a near-death experience.
And they tend to
happen spontaneously,
so it's very difficult to know
when it's going to happen.
On the other hand, there are
instances in which people claim
to separate from their
body and they can correctly
describe things from other
positions, other places.
That's when I become more
interested, because those
are things that can be tested.
And you don't need
to have somebody
in a near-death condition
in order to test it.
So what we have focused on,
what my research focuses on
mostly is people who
are not near death,
but just completely
ordinary states
who are asked, for example,
to describe something
at a distance or that is hidden.
And we have pretty good evidence
that people can do that.
>> For me to share with you that
I have perfect memory of every
experience I had in the
tunnel and in the light
and in my conversation with
God, and that I remember it
as clearly as I'm talking to
you now is not able to be proven
scientifically, because our
understanding of the word
memory is that it
is in the brain.
And the brain was in the body,
and the body was in the car.
So no, I cannot prove to you
scientifically how I can have
perfect memory of
this experience.
>> In standard practice
in neurosurgery,
the belief is that the brain
creates a consciousness.
This is a thing we're
taught in grade school,
that the brain makes
the consciousness.
The truth is-- and physics is
coming up against this one big
time now--
the truth is that the
consciousness makes the brain,
and not the other way around.
The brain is just
like a television set.
It's a receiving station.
The consciousness
exists outside the body.
If you think about
your consciousness
as existing outside of your
body but telling itself
that the locus of your
consciousness is in your head,
so then you're going to
experience everything
inside of the body, then
you can see how easy
it is to go out of body.
You just shift where
you're thinking it is.
You say, OK.
I'm no longer in this computer.
I'm out here in this one.
Click.
Now I'm out there.
OK.
Now I can look down on my body.
OK, if I want to make my locus
back inside the head, click.
I'm back in here.
>> Can we demonstrate that
consciousness is non-local?
And by that, meaning that
you can gain information
from a distance
in space or time?
The answer is yes, because
we can do experiments to test
whether that is possible.
And I believe that if
you dispassionately
look at the evidence
that is available,
then you will find
that the answer is yes,
or at least that we have high
confidence that the answer is
yes, and people can
gain information
from a distance
in space or time.
Maybe consciousness
requires the thing
that we call the brain in order
to be aware, and maybe not.
Maybe any sufficiently
complex system would do,
but we don't know yet.
>> And since science does not
yet know how to explain all
this, there are many experiences
which are very similar to how
we felt when you and I tried
to decide if the Earth was flat
or round, and science could
not yet prove one or the other.
Or when we tried to
decide if the Earth went
around the sun or the sun
went around the Earth,
because science could not
describe one or the other
to our left frontal
lobe's satisfaction.
That is where we now are in this
description of our experiences
out of our body.
>> Unless we know what
consciousness is or awareness,
then we can't explain anything.
So then it changes
the question from,
how do I become
aware of what I'm
capable of at an
unconscious level?
And the traditional
answer to that,
which I think is probably
the safest method,
is through meditation.
So meditation in many ways is
all about getting in contact
with your unconscious.
You get to deeper and deeper
levels of awareness about
what's going on.
And eventually, you reach
a level of awareness
where we might say that somebody
would become extremely psychic.
In the case of a near-death
experience in particular,
all of those people
by definition
come back, so their brains
couldn't have been too dead.
Just dead enough to be
declared near death.
And so we don't know what would
happen if a person actually
dies and doesn't come back.
We don't know what
the answer is.
>> We all leave in
many different ways,
but it's very similar, you know?
The sleeping.
I've heard that, and
I feel that people
feel like they go
into a deep sleep,
or there's something that
kind of pulls them out
of their body right before
the incident happens.
There was a young girl
that was in a car accident.
I'm trying to
remember the reading.
And she said to the mother that
right in the moment of impact,
she actually didn't
feel anything.
And it's not that
she blacked out,
but on the moment of impact,
it was like something
pulled her out of her body.
So her consciousness
and awareness
of being in the body and
actually experiencing pain
or things being
pushed into her body
or being in the vehicle on
impact, none of that stuff
was there.
She had peace and
she didn't experience
the pain, although on the
physical side, us as humans,
we see a car crash
and we see a body
and we see a girl who is
mangled or who is injured.
>> The body does die.
The heart stops beating
and the lungs start moving.
And yet, those of
us who have had
any form of being
out of our body
are convinced that our soul and
spirit survives and does not
die.
In fact, never dies.
>> Most common what they say
to me is it's like flipping
a switch.
Poo!
It's done.
It's an instantaneous process.
In some cases, though,
people have so much fear
of passing that actually,
they hold on and they grab.
In some cases, I
think it can actually
make it much more difficult
if there's a lot of fear
around the actual passing.
>> So I've actually helped my
father in his 90s and my mother
in her 90s.
Both understand
with my guarantee
where they are
going with no fear,
and it has helped
them leave in peace.
The very first experience I
had in my first near-death
experience when I left the
automobile was exactly what I
call almost a human desire
to reach those that I loved
and who loved me, and
let them know that, yes,
I had just left the body, but
I was in such peace and grace
and light and love
that they should have
no anxiety about where I am.
They can have human sadness
that I've left that form,
and they should have no
sadness about where I am.
That was the very
first thing I wished
I could communicate to them.
>> Once you understand from
the near-death experience that
the afterlife is real, then
you will want to maybe talk
to your relatives who
are sitting over there,
ones who are passed
on, the ones you love.
Your grandmother,
things like that.
When you start wanting
to talk to them
and you do talk to them,
things begin to change.
So this is why you want
to know your relatives.
They do love you.
They're still over there.
>> My own mother's
passing in April of 2012,
I stood right beside my mother
when my mother passed away.
And within an hour of
my mother's passing,
my mother spoke to me.
She told me, I've made it.
I've crossed over.
I'm there.
So I heard it as clear as day.
>> There are many
people that either
because of their experiences
out in the light after
their near-death experience, or
many people without having had
a crisis called a
near-death experience,
do have enormous access to
their sensitivity and intuition
and clairvoyance and ability
to see clearly and feel clearly
other entities that
have left the body form,
but are still with us.
So I am very open to it.
There's no conflict
between the experience
I've had in the light and that.
In fact, it enhances
my belief and trust.
>> A lot of people want to know,
what are the signs, you know?
My mother passed away.
My father passed away.
I've been praying.
I want them to come to let
me know that they're OK,
that they're at peace.
How do I know?
I'm at the mercy of the
spirit that comes through.
They show me what
they want me to see.
If they want me to know
that they were overweight
and they had a belly,
they will show me
that if they feel like it's
relevant to what the person
needs to hear or know.
>> I had a woman come
to me at a psychic fair.
And when she
approached my table,
she looked as if she had
been emotionally beaten.
She looked very distraught.
She looked very
tired, very worn down.
When she sat down
in front of me,
I instantly felt the presence
of her mother and father
come in on my right.
I felt the presence
of her daughter
and her husband
come in on my left.
So I told her, ma'am, I
feel your mother and father
on my right in spirit,
and I feel your daughter
and your husband file
in in spirit on my left.
And she says to me, my husband
just died two weeks ago.
Well, as soon as
she said that, I
hear him say to me
very emphatically,
tell her, tell her I heard her
the last four days of my life.
So I said, ma'am,
your husband wants
you to know very emphatically
that he heard you the last four
days of his life.
And my client just
burst into tears.
And she said, my husband
was in a coma the last four
days of his life, and boy,
did I do a lot of talking.
I forgave for everything
that needed forgiven.
I asked forgiveness
for everything
that needed to be forgiven.
And I told my husband
that I loved him.
And until this moment, I
didn't know he heard me.
And I literally watched
50 pounds of weight
come off my client's shoulders.
She lit up.
She released all
of that struggle.
All that guilt and worry
was just gone instantly.
>> So I always tell
people, have an open mind.
But also, whatever comes
through, if it's true for you
and it resonates,
then hold onto that.
That's your evidence.
That's what you need, you know?
You don't need going to
go down a long list of 100
different things for you to
finally get it and believe.
Because my job isn't to convince
you that there's an afterlife
or that I'm really psychic
or that I can really
pick up on things.
My job is to just
be the messenger
and to let you know
that they're with you,
to let you know
that there's things
that they're bringing
through that they're simply
acknowledging so you know that
it's really them, because only
they would know because
they're close to you.
They're connected to you.
>> A medium's experience is
they're experience is that
they're talking
to a dead person.
But we know that our
experience is a construction.
Maybe that's what's going on.
Maybe that's not
what's going on.
So people who want to believe
that we survive bodily death,
they don't like what I'm saying.
They don't like the uncertainty.
They would much rather
have absolute certainty
that something
continues to survive.
And I understand that,
and I have sympathy
with that approach as well.
But I can't go there, and I
don't have that certainty.
However, one thing I
can't say is about mediums
that I'm convinced
by the data that when
a medium is gaining information
that the information is not
chance, and it's not
techniques like cold reading.
Now they could be used.
I mean, there are fraudulent
mediums do, who will do that.
But the mediums who
are legitimate and good
can get real information.
From my perspective,
knowing something
about psychic
phenomena, I'm assuming
that what they're doing is very
similar to what a psychic does.
Maybe I'm right.
Maybe I'm not right.
But that's my assumption.
>> Well, you know, mind
reading, mentality things,
telepathics come here.
Again, this comes right up
through the center of my being.
It's not necessarily
something that I will hear.
I mean, I will do
this in the course
of reading to try to adjust
my ability to perceive.
>> There are a few cases where
it begins to stretch what we
understand about
psychic ability,
and those cases typically
involve a skill on the part
of the medium that they say that
they're getting from somebody
else or something's
working through them,
a skill that is complicated
like speaking another language
or being able to play chess,
something of that sort.
Which doesn't seem to fit what
we know about psychic ability
at this point.
>> This happens all the time
in the course of readings.
I'll say something, and
I'll notice when I say it,
those aren't the normal
words that I would
use to convey this thought.
And the person across from
the table from me is going,
oh my God.
That is exactly what
my dad would say.
my mother would say.
So they're not my words.
They're words of spirit.
>> No matter who I've talked to,
even when I've talked to people
that are not open spiritually
or have open minds,
they still have a sense that
their loved one is still with
them.
They can't explain it.
You know, I talk to people
all the time that say,
I don't know how I know.
I just know my
mother's still with me,
and I'm going to
know that forever.
Or I know my father's
still with me.
This is something we've
always been able to do.
We just forgot.
And then we're afraid.
We block it out.
For religious reasons, we think
that it's evil or negative.
And so our conscious
mind blocks it out.
But then when we begin to
remember the nature of who
we are and connect to our
heart again and meditate,
then we open up to
these subtle energies
and we're able to really
realize that there's
so much more to life
than the physical world.
>> I have had experiences
with other deceased entities,
like we call them ghosts
that have appeared.
And the most
amazing one happened
when I moved into
an apartment and I
could feel the energy of
somebody that was very anxious.
And to make a long
story short, I
discovered later after
the owners of the building
told us the truth
instead of lied to us
that the man who had
killed himself there
because his wife
had died of cancer
was the entity, the spirit
that was still hanging around
with anxiety.
Because when he killed
himself, there was ambivalence,
and his anxiety was still there.
And at 5:30 every
afternoon, it came
rushing out of the
kitchen, down the hall,
toward the living room.
And I could feel it.
And I could feel that
was not my anxiety.
I don't have anxiety
as strong as I felt.
And my one-year-old
daughter one day
not only felt it but
saw it the way children
can see and screamed, you know?
And I had to hold her.
And I turned to this
entity and said,
you stay away from my daughter!
And so your energy's OK here.
I can handle it, but she can't.
>> I think they exist pretty
much around the same level
as we do.
Physically, we have a certain
molecular makeup, you know?
We have a crust and you
can feel the person.
But I don't think that
every level of existence
is like that.
It's like a frequency.
It's like the radio, you know?
You can't see the radio waves,
but there are lots of them,
and you can tune into
different channels or stations
all the time.
>> It's right here where we are.
It's a different frequency
in the same place we are.
When they're in that
fourth dimension,
they're almost at our frequency.
That's why they can see us.
We can't see them,
but they can see us.
>> Yes, they can see us.
And some of us can see them.
I believe all of us have
the ability to see them.
But if we don't
believe in them or we
choose not to activate them,
they're not going to work.
But it is very clear in
Corinthians in the Bible
that all men are given equally,
liberally of these gifts
as much as he would will.
>> I now know or believe based
on my own experience that there
is much that we cannot
see, but we can feel.
So when I hear things like
the string theory and others
and quantum physics,
all of it are
examples of science beginning
to understand and to explain
what until now has never
been able to be explained.
>> What's important about
quantum mechanics is that
it's the best physical
theory that we have.
It describes the physical world
as accurately as any theory
that we've been able
to develop so far.
So we're physical creatures.
We live in a physical world.
Physics has to be
compatible at least
with the kinds of phenomena
we're talking about.
So if somebody
claims that they can
project their mind somewhere
and get information
from a distance, physics
has to allow that.
Because otherwise, it
doesn't make any sense.
So up until perhaps
100 years ago
with classical physics
as the best description,
there wasn't any way that
physics would even allow
for these kinds of phenomena.
So somewhere about 100
years ago, a little bit more
now, the idea of multiple
dimensions came along.
And so people doing my
kind of work suddenly
became very interested
in the possibility
that there are other
dimensions here.
Like you go to
CERN, for example,
and talk to the particle
physicists who are beginning
to figure out, based on
things like the standard model
in physics, how do we explain
why when you mash together
a bunch of protons
or neutrons, why
do you get the result that you
get of a bunch of particles?
Well, some of those
theories require
that you'd need more than
three dimensions of space
and one of time in
order to describe it.
So that's how you begin to find
out these other dimensions.
The mathematics are much simpler
when you deal with higher order
dimensions than if you imagine
that all there actually was
was three dimensions of
space and one of time.
So I mean, that's where the
comfort comes from in physics.
The mathematics say,
well, there ought
to be 11 dimensions
because then everything
kind of works really nice.
And that allows you
to predict that if you
take certain hunks of matter
and you mash them together,
that the behavior of that should
look a certain way with 11
dimensions, but it would look
very different with three.
>> And physics says we have
seven levels in string theory
and one more level in M-theory
for a total of 11 dimensions.
Those eight extra dimensions,
which we have not discerned,
are the dark energy, the 96% of
the universe that we cannot yet
even detect, but we know
mathematically that it's there
from our astronomy.
We know that the dark
energy and the dark matter
exist and make up
96% of the universe,
which we don't yet see.
There's a lot of room
for a lot of afterlife
and a lot of different
levels out there.
But the materialist
scientists who only want 3D,
they won't look at it.
They say, no, it's
a bunch of baloney.
They don't even look.
They just say, no good.
Impossible.
I'm not even going
to look at it.
Well, how do they
know it's impossible?
They see 4% of the universe and
the rest of it's impossible.
But that's ridiculous.
We have to remember
that it's not in our 4%.
We can't know it all yet.
But we're now at a point
where we are making beachheads
on a new territory,
those other dimensions.
>> I think if when you're a
scientist working on the edge
of the known, if you really
require certainty to feel
comfortable, you're
in the wrong business,
because most of the time,
you begin to recognize when
you're studying over the
edge of what is known,
nobody knows what's going on.
For me, that's exciting.
And so I don't mind that
we don't understand it.
The challenge is, how do
we become clever enough
to be able to study
that unknown space
and begin to understand it.
>> The quarks and the gluons
which make up our atoms,
string theory is that they're
made up of a vibration.
And you think about a vibration
without a string vibrating.
Now you have what quarks
and gluons are made out of,
a thought.
A vibratory thought.
And that's consciousness.
And that's what makes
the whole universe.
Well, if consciousness
comes first,
then this whole idea
that the neurosurgeons
are using, that the brain, the
wet brain creates the thought,
is bullshit.
>> Science does not
have an explanation yet.
I mean, when we think
about it, what does it
mean to have an explanation?
In science, what
that typically means
is we want a causal explanation.
We want to know
that this interacts
with that and that
interacts with this,
and they have a causal sequence
that explains how things work.
So from that perspective,
we have no idea.
We don't know how
psychic abilities work.
But we also don't know
how consciousness works.
We don't have any
explanations for that either.
We're still very young creatures
and science is too new.
So I think about other
planets out there
that may be a billion
years ahead of us.
They probably know
a little bit more
than we do if there are people
who are scientists there.
And they would look
back at us, what
we're trying to do now
and say, these creatures
don't have any idea
what's going on.
I mean, most of the really
fundamental questions that we
would have about life and us and
the planet and universe and all
that stuff, which are all
very interesting questions,
we have some answers, but
it's just barely begun.
And all scientists
learn very quickly
that there are certain
things you don't talk about.
You don't push against the
social environment in science,
because if you do,
you won't have a job.
You won't be able to
do what you want to do.
So it is no different than in
politics or in any other domain
of human affairs.
We learn that there are
certain things you talk about
and certain things you don't.
>> I know when I say I'm a
medium that all the other
scientists look at me like,
he is not a scientist.
He's a nut.
That's.
OK I'm retired.
Who cares?
I don't care anymore.
OK?
They still have their career.
They're still worried
about everyone else
thinking they're
crazy, you know?
So they are careful
about saying things.
And I understand that.
But more of them should have
a little more courage and say,
I don't know everything.
I'm going to look.
Instead of saying it's
impossible, they should look.
And I believe in physics,
and I'm a naval architect.
I've designed many ships.
And I know all about
how to use physics
in our 3D to make things work.
But I also know that that's just
a little corner of the world,
and that the huge universe
out here decides that.
And this huge universe, we
don't know anything about.
And I can stand up there.
If the guys who want to
hide in the 4% little corner
want to laugh at me, let them.
They're the fools.
I'm not the fool.
I realize we don't know.
>> Most scientists tend
to be pretty smart,
and the smarter you are, the
easier it is to fall in love
with a theory.
And theories are explanations.
They make us feel
comfortable in the world.
So if you spend your
entire adult life learning
about a certain description of
the way that the world works,
you become
comfortable with that.
And after a while, you begin to
see the world in those terms.
I happen to have
a lot of friends
who are theorists
who can only see
the world through their theory.
So it is that combined also
with a certain social taboo
about what you're allowed
to talk about in science
and what you're not.
And taboos are interesting,
because I mean,
by definition, this is
what you can talk about
and this is what you
can't talk about.
Well, why can't we
talk about this?
Well, that's a whole
topic unto itself.
Why are we not allowed to
address fundamental questions
about who we are?
Younger scientists have grown
up in a very different kind
of context, and
especially people
paying attention to
surprises and strange things
about quantum mechanics
and the physical world.
I think it's
beginning to loosen up
people's previous
assumptions about,
what do we actually
know about physicality?
And that alone could be
enough to eventually change
how people feel about
these topics as well.
So consciousness
studies 30 years ago
was just beginning
to become popular,
and then it went
into a quiet period,
and now it's coming
back much bigger.
You see conferences on
consciousness everywhere
and an academic can
study consciousness
and they don't lose their job.
That's happening around the
world, so that is a big change.
>> There is a huge change
in human consciousness now
compared to the past, and
it continues to change.
And now that we are beginning
to talk more openly about it,
then we are better able to
hear and understand and believe
other people's experiences and
talk more ourselves about it.
And that change is
happening very quickly.
>> It's true that because
of a rising interest
in consciousness studies
said some of it is science,
but a large part of it is also
scholarship and philosophy.
So there are many different
ways of getting into this topic.
And sometimes philosophers
and scientists
don't know how to
talk to each other,
and sometimes scholars
and historians
are talking about something
completely different.
But that's OK.
It's a big and important topic,
and so you have conferences
with thousands of
people, all coming at it
from slightly different
angles, which I take actually
as a good sign, because
it means it's not
likely to collapse prematurely
into, this is the way to do it.
It's a very complicated topic,
which makes it interesting
and also challenging
to figure out,
what's the best way to study it?
And maybe there is no best way.
Everybody has
their own best way.
>> My experience in the light
enabled me to feel a deeper
sense of spirituality, less
defined by any one religion
or another.
So all religions in my
opinion and experience
have true spirituality
at the core,
and all religions to different
degrees and in different ways
are guilty of a form
of righteousness
that has the details
of their description
be perceived of as
the correct ones,
and the others the wrong ones.
So the more we come
together as one
and realize the
common goals we have
and listen to each other's
spirituality in whatever we
believe, actually, we will
start to learn that at the core,
we are all feeling and believing
mostly the same things,
and that the details
that are different
aren't actually so
important that they deserve
killing one another over them.
>> I would say we're
experiencing a spiritual
revolution.
70% of Americans do believe
that there's an afterlife.
Around 35%, 40% truly
believe in mediums being
able to talk to the other side.
>> I have seen a tremendous
increase in the last two years,
but I noticed the increase
probably about five to eight
years ago begin.
People are awakening
and seeing more.
And especially in children
who are being born today,
they're being born much more
perceptive, much more psychic,
much more clairvoyant,
much more empathic
than they've ever been before.
My belief, my hope is that it is
to improve those circumstances
on the Earth plane, to bring
us back to love so that we
can better help one another.
>> I don't think that that
experience necessarily changes
you per se into a person who's
selfless and helpful and all
that, you know?
And good and whatever like that.
I think people have been having
that experience for centuries.
But they may or may not
have gotten more enlightened
afterward.
Hopefully, they would be.
And it's kind of nice to think
that the world would someday
turn into a place
that people would
want to stay and want to live.
But the fact is that I
guess we're in the world
because we are supposed
to be presented
with problems to
solve, and that's
the way we're trying to do it.
>> A lot of people have
wounds in their heart,
and those wounds in their heart
make them feel more separate
than more connected.
And so a lot of
people feel like it's
a race to make the most money,
to have the biggest house,
to have all these external
things that none of us
really need.
But there's a part
of them and there's
a part of us that
believes we need
that to be happy, to have joy.
When people ask me
questions, well,
why do people suffer
if we all have angels?
Why do people suffer?
Why do bad things happen?
We all have free will
and we all have a choice.
We can choose to be angry, or
we can choose to be at peace.
None of us are alone.
And if we really knew
who stood beside us
and behind us and in front of
us, we'd never fear anything.
We'd never be afraid
to go after our dreams
and live our best life and take
that chance and take that risk.
We wouldn't be afraid
that we didn't have money
to do the things
that we wanted to do.
We wouldn't be afraid
to do anything.
We'd be more fearless and we
would walk with blind faith,
just knowing that everything
was always going to work out
and that we'd be OK.
>> As my friend and spiritual
teacher who passed away would
say to me, every moment, every
breath is a moment of creation.
Some people get so caught in
the process of, oh, I want this
and I want this and I want this,
and then it doesn't show up
immediately so then
they're like, well,
that's not going to happen.
Well, every moment, every
thought, every breath
is a creation.
Now you've got five minutes
of moving toward it,
and all of a sudden, oh, well,
it's not going to happen,
you just shut it down.
[LAUGH]
And I mean, I tell my
clients that as well.
Come here.
I can predict, but I
can't make it happen.
So when you come to
me for a reading,
I give you a snapshot of
what I see as possibility.
It's up to the
client to create it.
We project our own energy.
Have you ever had a day
that just started out
to be the absolute
worst day, and you
were in the absolute worst
mood, and it just progressed
through the entire day?
That's because your energy's
progressing negativity.
[LAUGH]
If you can stop, take a
breath, refresh, and refocus--
I tell people, turn on your GPS.
Turn on your GPS.
When you get up in the morning,
when your feet hit the floor,
you state what you
want your day to be.
>> Just believe in yourself and
what you see and what you know.
And if you're doing
something good
and trying to be good and
beneficial to the world,
then the pit things people
say, they're not real.
They don't matter.
So that's what I
usually say, you know?
Just believe in what you
have as your own intuition.
>> There are only two
ways, fear and love.
Nothing else.
The rest doesn't exist.
And fear is false.
We use False Evidence
Appearing Real.
F-E-A-R. False evidence
appearing to be real.
That's what fear is.
It's not real.
It's not real at all.
Fears are based on nothing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]